5G Mobile Dev Docs (#936)
helium/docs: docs/5g-on-helium/5g-on-helium.mdx

id: 5g-on-helium
hide_title: true
sidebar_label: Introduction

> sidebar_class_name: new

Author: ```suggestion

```

remove this frontmatter, unused tagging

does not require a tower operator to acquire spectrum licenses.

More information about CBRS can be found on the
[Federal Communications Commission Website](https://www.fcc.gov/35-ghz-band-overview)

5G Hotspots can participate in providing 5G cellular coverage when connected to Indoor or Outdoor
CBRS Small Cell Radios while also participating in providing LoRaWAN coverage.

:::info

[Helium Discord](https://discord.gg/helium) is the best place to get real-time support from the
community.

The [#5g-cbrs](discord://discord.com/channels/404106811252408320/836735476659912754) channel is most
relevant for using the Network.

:::

## Network of Networks

With the passing of
[HIP 51: Helium DAOs](https://github.com/helium/HIP/blob/main/0051-helium-dao.md) a general
structure for onboarding new Decentralized Network Protocols (DNPs) to the broader Helium Network
was created. The Helium Mobile DAO with Helium 5G Hotspots are the first step in the evolution of
the Helium ecosystem.

## Helium 5G Rollout

The passing of [HIP 51: Helium DAO](https://github.com/helium/HIP/blob/main/0051-helium-dao.md)

> allows for the creation of a MOBILE tokens that will reward 5G Hotspot operators on the existing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allows for the creation of MOBILE tokens that will reward 5G Hotspot operators on the existing
```

Helium blockchain. This will immediately allow any online 5G Hotspot with a Small Cell Radio to mine
MOBILE tokens.

50B of 250B MOBILE is pre-mined as specified in the
[Economics Overview](https://github.com/helium/HIP/blob/main/0053-mobile-dao.md#economics-overview)

> 50B of 250B MOBILE is pre-mined and deposited to the Helium Foundation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and deposited to the Helium Foundation.
```

The Helium model decentralizes site acquisition costs and enables communities to participate in
building reliable, high bandwidth networks using technologies like CBRS and Wi-Fi. This doesn’t
completely replace service providers altogether. Instead, we see service providers as a critical
component of this ecosystem.

## CBRS Radios

Citizens Broadband Radio Service (CBRS) is a wide broadcast 3.5Ghz band in the United States that
does not require a tower operator to acquire spectrum licenses.

More information about CBRS can be found on the
[Federal Communications Commission Website](https://www.fcc.gov/35-ghz-band-overview)

5G Hotspots can participate in providing 5G cellular coverage when connected to Indoor or Outdoor
CBRS Small Cell Radios while also participating in providing LoRaWAN coverage.

## Network of Networks

With the passing of
[HIP 51: Helium DAOs](https://github.com/helium/HIP/blob/main/0051-helium-dao.md) a general
structure for onboarding new Decentralized Network Protocols (DNPs) to the broader Helium Network
was created. The Helium Mobile DAO with Helium 5G Hotspots are the first step in the evolution of
the Helium ecosystem.

## Helium 5G Rollout

> The passing of [HIP 51: Helium DAO](https://github.com/helium/HIP/blob/main/0051-helium-dao.md)
> allows for the creation of a Mobile subDAO, which rewards 5G Hotspot operators with MOBILE token on
> the existing Helium blockchain. This will immediately allow any online 5G Hotspot with a Small Cell
> Radio to mine MOBILE tokens. Mobile mining is only available in the US at this time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The passing of [HIP 51: Helium DAO](https://github.com/helium/HIP/blob/main/0051-helium-dao.md)
allows for the creation of a MOBILE tokens that will reward 5G Hotspot operators on
the existing Helium blockchain. This will immediately allow any online 5G Hotspot with a Small Cell
Radio to mine MOBILE tokens.
```

50B MOBILE tokens are pre-mined as specified in the

> [Economics Overview](https://github.com/helium/HIP/blob/main/0053-mobile-dao.mdeconomics-overview)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Economics Overview](https://github.com/helium/HIP/blob/main/0053-mobile-dao.md#economics-overview)
```

> 50B MOBILE tokens are pre-mined as specified in the
> [Economics Overview](https://github.com/helium/HIP/blob/main/0053-mobile-dao.mdeconomics-overview)
> and assigned to a wallet held by the Helium Foundation. A total of 250B MOBILE tokens are allocated
> to the subDAO. Foundation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
50B MOBILE tokens are pre-mined as specified in the
[Economics Overview](https://github.com/helium/HIP/blob/main/0053-mobile-dao.mdeconomics-overview)
and assigned to a wallet held by the Helium Foundation. A total of 250B MOBILE will be emitted by the subDAO as per the emissions schedule.
```

> to the subDAO. Foundation.

Reviewer 2: Remove "A total of 250B MOBILE tokens are allocated
to the subDAO. Foundation.". Should be "50B of 250B MOBILE is pre-mined and deposited to the Foundation."

> :::note Mainnet Validator latest Beta build: v1.12.1

Reviewer 2: We have not tagged beta build yet. We are actively working on providing MOBILE subnetwork support.

Reviewer: agreed on removing this section.

The core team has tagged a beta release v1.12.1. This build provides support for the MOBILE token
issuance as defined and approved by the community in
[HIP 51: Helium DAO](https://github.com/helium/HIP/blob/main/0051-helium-dao.md).

It enables transactions that can create the new MOBILE subnetwork and assign a pre-mined amount of
MOBILE tokens on the chain. When activated, this will enable MOBILE token mining by online 5G
radios.

> Further information about emission schedule can be found [here](/5g-on-helium/5g-on-helium).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Further information about emission schedule can be found [here](/5g-on-helium/mining-5g#emissions-curve).
```
